---
title: Joomla Open Source Courses Platform
date: 20th June 2023
description: An open-source platform for seamless course management, born from a startup venture. Rebuilt with a user-friendly interface on Joomla by a dedicated two-person team.
image: /joomla_home.png
ogImage: /joomla_home.png
alt: Joomla Open Source Courses Platform Home
author: Davide Cuni
topic: E-Commerce
readTime: 5 min read
---

## Introduction

Originally developed for a startup that unfortunately didn't launch, JOSCP (Joomla Open Source Courses Platform) is now an open-source project. Initiated by another programmer's choice of Joomla, our two-person team continued
development. We rebuilt the entire backend and frontend from the ground up to meet the platform's requirements, with a primary focus on creating an E-Commerce platform and a user-friendly dashboard for effective course and lesson
management.

## Concept and Design

The platform was designed for seamless course management by profiling users to create homogeneous classes based on shared interests and time preferences.

In order to achieve this we took inspiration from the school hierarchy system, identifying four main user groups

- Students
- Teachers – ( Conducting classes )
- Coordinators – ( Forming classes and assigning teachers )
- Administrators – ( Managing courses and questionnaires )

::CImg{src="/joscp_dashboard.png" alt="Part of the Coordinator dashboard"}
::

### Journey Map ( How the service works )

1. Student decides to buy a course and is redirected to the profile page.
2. Coordinator receives an email to assign a new student to a class.
3. Student fills out the course questionnaire and preferences.
4. Coordinator reviews preferences and assigns the student to a class.
5. Student receives assignment notification.
6. Teacher receives notification of a new class.
7. Teacher adds the first lesson to the calendar and notifies all students.
8. Course ends, and students provide feedback.

Along with courses, we considered that students might want to do one-to-one lessons to try the service with a lower price tag, so we implemented that as well. In that case, the student is automatically assigned to the designated teacher that he bought a lesson from, and the teacher is then able to assign the lessons to the student based on his time and day preferences.

::CImg{src="/joscp_er.png" alt="Database ER Model of JOSCP" size="1920px"}
::

### Features

- Ad-Hoc system to handle the courses
- E-Commerce System (Provided by E-Shop extension)
- E-Commerce Integration to the Ad-Hoc System
- Automated Emails
- User and Coach Dashboard
  - Calendar
  - Purchase history
  - User Surveys based on the bought course
  - Add, Modify, Delete Classes
  - Add, Modify, Delete Lessons
  - Being able to view the user surveys to make compatible classes.
  - Frontend notifications on the dashboard
  - Cron job to clean up the finished classes.

## Conclusion

> If you are planning to launch a platform for selling courses and need to manage multiple teachers, consider using this project as a robust foundation. It includes all the essential functionality: from the E-Commerce system and dashboard to handle classes, lessons, questionnaires, to email notifications. You can then seamlessly integrate and customize additional systems to meet your specific needs.

### Tech Stack

- Joomla
- PHP
- SQL
- Typescript

## Downloads and Demo Site

Check out the project on GitHub, or discover the live Demo Site!

::CButton{url="https://piattaforma-corsi.typotek.space/" icon="i-mdi-web"}
Check out the Live Demo Site
::
::CButton{url="https://github.com/Ashrakk/davide-cuni-portfolio" icon="i-mdi-github" variant="outline"}
Check out the Repository
::

Login Credentials:

- Coord
  - coordpassword

- UtenteUser
  - userpassword

There are 7 other users, they all have the same password you can access them like this

1. UtenteUser
2. UtenteUser2
3. UtenteUser3
4. Etc..