---
title: Animazioni e Spettacoli
date: 14th January 2023
description: Dive into the transformation of an artist association’s website, navigating challenges and redefining the user experience from the ground up.
image: /animaz_home.png
ogImage: /ogScreenshots/animaz_home.png
alt: Animazioni e Spettacoli Home
author: Davide Cuni
topic: Company
readTime: 5 min read
---

## Introduction

**Animazioni e Spettacoli**, a local artist association active in northern Italy, brings diverse forms of entertainment and animation for party’s, ceremonies and public events. I undertook the task of redesigning their website from scratch, working on the design, development and copywriting.

With a staggering amount of entertainment options, the biggest challenge was crafting an intuitive user navigation experience.

## Design

Analyzing the original website unveiled crucial factors for the redesign. The existing site comprised of 40 pages, detailing numerous services, most copied from competitor websites.

Addressing the issue of plagiarism, I informed the client of it’s impact on the google rankings and suggested a content overhaul. Having no one to delegate the task, I accepted to take care of the copywriting too.

### Addressing the UX

In order to enhance the navigation experience, **I condensed the pages from 40 to 26**, categorizing offers into three main sections: *artists*, *shows* and *services*. Similar services were grouped by theme on a single page, such as “*Shows of fire*” or “*Acrobatics*”.

::CImg{src="/blog/animaz_services.png" alt="Entertainment for Weddings and Ceremonies"}
::

### The Copywriting

Underestimating the copywriting effort, it took nearly a 6 months (during my studies) to complete. Researching each service and artist, this unexpected challenge boosted my confidence and writing skills. Even if I didn’t know much about the subjects at first. **I wrote about 7000 words, detailing 32 services in total.**

## Development

I built the website on WordPress, crafting a personalized child theme based on OceanWP. Simultaneously, I integrated custom elements into WpBakery Page Builder to meet the design requirements.

While I had initially developed some of these extensions in a previous project, I refined and expanded upon them during this development phase. **My goal was not only to fulfill the design criteria but also to establish a library that I could use for other websites.**

## Conclusion

The final product is a **colorful website** rich with content and a **thoughtful user experience** that showcases a multitude of services funneling the user into a contact form.

> Overall, I’m quite proud of how the website turned out, looking at the past right now I would certainly make some changes to the graphic design. Fortunately, I recently got tasked to take care of it for a little bit more to enrichen it with blog content. I’ll leverage this opportunity to make the website better than before. Thank you for reading!

### Tech Stack

- Wordpress
- WpBakery Page Builder
- Makeshift Plugin (Ad-Hoc shortcodes)
- Makeshift Child Theme (Ad-Hoc theme extension based on OceanWP)

## Live Site

Check out the live site, it's free!
::CButton{url="https://www.animazionispettacoli.it/" icon="i-mdi-web"}
Check out the Live Site
::
